 ###Credit Risk Classification

Overview

The purpose of this analysis is to develop a model that can predict the creditworthiness of borrowers using historical lending data from a peer-to-peer lending service. This model aims to identify loans that are likely to default, helping the lending company make informed decisions and mitigate potential risks associated with high-risk loans.

Data and Financial Information

The dataset contains financial information related to borrowers' loan activities. Key features likely include variables that reflect borrowers’ financial stability, such as income, debt-to-income ratio, loan amount, and credit score, although specific feature names may vary.

Target Variable
The target variable is loan_status, which represents the health of each loan:

0: Healthy loan (low risk of default).
1: High-risk loan (higher likelihood of default).
Basic Information on Target Variable
The loan_status variable has the following distribution:

0 (Healthy Loan): 75,036 instances
1 (High-Risk Loan): 2,500 instances
This distribution indicates an imbalanced dataset, with most loans classified as healthy, which could impact model training and require careful evaluation.

Machine Learning Process

The analysis followed these steps:

Data Preparation: Loaded the dataset and split the data into features (X) and target labels (y). The dataset was divided into training and testing sets using train_test_split, with a set random state for reproducibility.
Model Selection: A logistic regression model was chosen for this binary classification task due to its effectiveness with binary outcomes, computational efficiency, and interpretability.
Model Training: The logistic regression model was trained on the training set (X_train, y_train) to identify patterns in the financial features associated with the loan statuses.
Evaluation: The model was evaluated using the testing set (X_test, y_test). Key metrics, including accuracy, precision, recall, and a confusion matrix, were generated to assess model performance.
Methods

Logistic Regression: The logistic regression model calculates the probability of each class, making it effective for distinguishing between high-risk and healthy loans. This was an appropriate choice for our binary classification task.
Results

The logistic regression model’s performance on the test data is summarized below:

Overall Accuracy: 0.99 (indicating that 99% of predictions were correct)
Confusion Matrix:
[[18682,    98],
 [   39,   565]]
Class 0 (Healthy Loan):
Precision: 1.00
Recall: 0.99
F1-Score: 1.00
Class 1 (High-Risk Loan):
Precision: 0.85
Recall: 0.94
F1-Score: 0.89
Macro Average:
Precision: 0.93
Recall: 0.97
F1-Score: 0.94
Weighted Average:
Precision: 0.99
Recall: 0.99
F1-Score: 0.99
These metrics indicate a high level of accuracy and balanced performance across both classes, with particularly strong recall for the high-risk loan class, which is essential for identifying potential defaults.

Summary

The logistic regression model achieved a high accuracy of 0.99, demonstrating excellent performance in predicting both healthy and high-risk loans. Its strong recall for high-risk loans (0.94) suggests that it effectively identifies potential defaults, which is valuable for the company’s risk management.


